# Time series forecasting of Taipei's air quality index
The Air Quality Index (AQI) is one of the most common measures of pollutant concentration in the air. When measuring it repeatedly across time, AQI is bound to changes and fluctuations caused by many factors. In this project we tried to identify the different basic components affecting AQI, to capture them by fitting models to existing AQI data, and to rely on those models to predict future AQI. We used a dataset containing hourly AQI measurements from Taipei city spanning from 2016 to 2024. Rather than on an exhaustive approach where we tested a wide range of models, we based our modeling choices on what seemed plausible after data inspection. We separated our target components into three, First, trend, the most general, non-repeating change over time. Second, seasonality, or multiple and overlapping recurring oscillations in AQI. Third, serial dependence, or the tendency of AQI measurements to be correlated with those measurements made before. Trend was best captured as a quadratic function where initial improving air quality eventually worsened. Seasonality was modeled with a series of Fourier features that captured, in order of importance, annual, semiannual, monthly and daily AQI oscillations. Finally, upon observing that the relationship between a measurement and its lags was overwhelmingly linear, we fitted a series of linear regressions to explain serial dependence, with the best performance coming from the model with 8 lags as predictors. Since our forecast was made on a time period whose AQI values were already known, we could verify that our combined predictions accounted well for the original AQI data.
